All right.
Before we dive into the projects of this course I want to go over the basics of Photoshop and the basic
tools we'll be using throughout this course.
Now if you have experience with Photoshop I suggest that you go ahead and skip this lecture.
As you probably already know all about it.
If not I really suggest that you stick around and learn the tools that we'll be using throughout this
course.
You're going to need an understanding of this in order to create the projects that we do.
So let's go ahead and let's get started.
So the first thing I want to show you how to do in Photoshop is I want to show you how to create a new
document.
Now this is pretty simple but just in case you don't understand how to do it I'm going to show you.
So you're going to come up to file.
You're going to go to new.
And now you have a box where you can fill out the information about your custom document so you can
change the width the height and the resolution.
You can also change the type of color mode but I suggest you don't mess with that.
So we're going to keep it at the size it is now and the resolution if you want to change yours you can
go ahead and do that.
So let's go ahead and.
OK.
Now we have a new document.
Now I'm going to hop back over into my other document because I want to show you some examples and demonstrations
and I need an image to work on in order for me to be able to do this.
Let's go ahead and let's get started with the first tool.
So the first tool we're going to be using is the grabbing move tool.
This tool can be used to click and grab objects on a layer.
So if we click and grab as can't move them right now because his layer is locked on.
I'll show you what that means.
Over here in the right hand side of the screen where I'm circling is the layer that we're trying to
select.
Right now it has a lock symbol next to it.
That means that the layer is locked and not much can be done to it.
So if we go ahead and click that it will unlock the layer.
Now if we come back to our image we can click it and drag it around and move it around.
So that's what the grab and move tool does put him back into position.
Now let's move on to the next tool the next tool is the marquee tool.
Now with the marquee tool you can select an area and then you can grab and move that area.
So now we come back to our grab and move tool.
You can click and move that around.
Put that back into position.
There are multiple marquee tools so if you click and hold on the marquee tool will come up with a little
window next to it.
You can select these different types of marquee tools the ones we'll be using are the rectangular and
the elliptical marquee tool.
So let's select the elliptical and see what that does.
So now if we click and drag it you'll see we can create an elliptical selection and then we can grab
and move that selection.
So the marquee tool is very useful for all kinds of things.
Now I want to put this piece back into its position but I don't want to have to do it by hand.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to undo this by going up to add and undo move the next tool we're
going to be going over is the Lasso tool the Lasso tool is right here underneath the grab a move tool.
Now the Lasso tool is also a selection tool.
The differences you can create organic shapes and custom shapes.
I'll show you what I mean.
So if I click with the Lasso tool you'll see a creates a line.
And wherever I click Next it'll solidify that line.
So if I click up here that line is now there permanently.
And what I can do is I can just keep clicking around so I can click around my dog character and you
get the idea that you can cut stuff out this way.
Now this is a very rigid shape and it's not very organic.
So what you would want to do in a real situation is you would want to very carefully do small lines
all the way around your character to cut him out.
But you'll see now if I use my grab a move tool I can click and drag my shape around.
I'm going to undo that.
Now there's a second Lasso tool.
If we click and hold down the Lasso tool you'll see we have the regular Lasso tool.
The one we were just using was the Polygonum Lasso tool which is this one right here.
So we're going to go ahead and select the Lasso tool.
You'll see what the last tool we can do is we can actually draw a selection.
So if I click and start drawing with the Lasso tool it creates a very organic shape that I can then
cut out and select If I grab my select tool we can move that around.
So this too is also very useful.
Let's undo that.
OK.
Now I want to go over hot keys with you.
Well hockeys are there keys on your keyboard that you can press to quickly select a tool.
So we're going to start with the hot key for the grab move tool grab a move tool is going to be the
letter V on your keyboard.
Now for demonstration purposes I'm going to select a different tool so you can see how it will switch
when I hit the letter V.
So I'm going to add the letter V now and you'll see my tool switches to the grab and move tool.
So now I can grab move this.
Now let's go over the hockey for the marquee tool the hot key for the marquee tool is going to be the
letter M.
So we'll hit.
And you'll see that our tool changes to the marquee tool.
Now lastly let's go over the last tool as you can probably guess the hot for the Lasso tool is the letter
L L and now we have the Lasso tool selected and we can use that tool.
Now you can imagine how useful these hot keys are while you're working.
It makes your workflow so much faster because rather than having to go all the way over to other parts
of the screen to select Tools you can just hit a key on your keyboard very quickly and a little switch
between all the different tools that you need to be using.
Let's go over the last tool.
We'll be reviewing in this lecture.
It's the brush tool the brush was very useful and Photoshop and it's just like it sounds.
It's a paintbrush in Photoshop.
So before we get started with it let's unselect out of this selection by just clicking somewhere else
on the screen.
And now we've unselected our selection.
Now we're going to go to the brush tool which is this little paint brush icon on the left upper side.
So click that.
And now we have our brush selected.
So now you'll see if we click and drag we can paint a line or if we just tap once we can create a circle.
So it's just like a normal brush in real life.
Now what if you want to change the color of your brush.
Well it's very simple.
You just come over here to the color on the left side of the screen and you click it and now you can
select any color you want by clicking anywhere on the color palette or by moving up and down the color
spectrum.
So let's select a green and we'll make it as green as possible by pulling the all the way up to the
corner and then we're going hit.
OK.
Now you'll see that we're painting with the color green.
It's pretty cool and pretty useful.
But now let's say that you want the edge of your brush to be a very hard sharp line instead of this
soft line that it's creating right now.
Well the way you change that is by coming over here to this icon that looks like a can with brushes
in it and you're going to select it.
Now you can see you have all these different brush types that you can select.
So you'll see we have a hard edged brush which we can select down here in the preview window you can
see what that brush will look like.
You can select this more wispy brush or come down you can see that there are all kinds of brushes.
Everything from grass to the leaves to rain drops.
So it's like the leaf one and see what that looks like.
And now you can see we can create a trail of leaves.
But what if you want to see those leaves even better.
You can spaced those leaves out by coming over here to the spacing bar and by dragging it up it'll put
space between each stamp that it lays down.
So now when we paint with it you can see the leaves a lot better if you want to change the size of your
brush.
You simply just come up here to the side bar and you can drag that up or down.
So let's drag it way down and you'll see that are you can't even see or brush anymore because it's so
small.
Now let's bring it up and you'll see it's a lot bigger.
Now you're probably thinking that this is going to be very time consuming to come up here every time.
Select your brush change the size and the spacing.
Well luckily there is a way that you can do this with your hockeys.
So the hot key to select your brush is the letter B.
So if we select a different tool and then we hit the letter B you'll see it switches over to our brush
tool.
Now if you want to change your size of the hockey it's going to be different in Windows and Mac.
So I'll go over both the hocky for Windows is going to be Allt and then right click and then you'll
see that when you drag your mouse back and forth it's going to increase and decrease the size of your
brush.
The Mac it's going to be option command and you're going to do the same thing you're going to hold down
and drag back and forth.
So let's try it now.
So we'll go Olt Right-Click and on a Mac you're going to go option command.
And now we're going to drag this back and forth.
So let's make our brush very big.
Now you'll see that we have a ginormous brush.
All right.
Cool.
Let's undo that now another way you can change the size of your brush is by hitting the square brackets
on your keyboard.
So the left hand side the square bracket is going to decrease the size of your brush when you press
it the right hand side square bracket is going to increase your brush size.
Now another thing you can do with the hockeys is you can change the opacity of your brush.
Now what the opacity is is it's just the see throughness of the brush color.
Now the way you do this is by holding down Olt and then right click like you would on a Windows and
you're going to go option command like you would on a Mac.
But this time instead of dragging from left to right we're going to drag up and down and you'll see
on our little meter that says diameter and opacity on the opacity you'll see that it's the percentage
is going up and down.
If we bring our opacity very low let's say 21 percent.
Now we paint with it you'll see that our brush is a very see through changing the opacity of things
and Photoshop is very useful and we'll be using it throughout the course.
Another way you can change the opacity of your brush is by hitting the numbers at the top of your keyboard.
So if we hit the number zero on her keyboard that will make our opacity 100 percent.
So now you'll see it's not see through at all.
If we come all the way down and hit the number four.
It's a lot more see through the last hocky I want to go over with you is the edit undo hot key now rather
than always coming up to edit undo to undo things.
And believe me you will be undoing things a lot as you create your artwork in Photoshop.
The key on Windows is going to be.
Control Z.
That will undo the last move that you did on your document.
Now if you want to continue to undo movements on your document you're going to go control alt Z and
you have to press that every time you want to continue to undo a step.
On a Mac you're going to hit command shift.
Easy to undo your last step.
You made it through this lecture.
Great job.
Now your assignment is going to be to create something in photoshop with the tools I just showed you.
It doesn't have to be very spectacular.
You can just create anything to demonstrate that you understand the tools once you've created something.
Go ahead and share it to the Q&A section of this course so we can all see the progress that you're making.
So I hope to see your artwork soon in the Q&A section of the course.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.